# ASSESS sepsis

This repository contains all code used to create the dataset and causal AI results acquired during the ASSESS sepsis project. The created datasets themselves are also provided to ease reproduction.

A visual overview of our results and methods is available at our [website](https://mbalazs8796.github.io/ASSESS_sepsis/).

If after reading the contents of this README file you still encounter issues when running the codes found in this repository please contact on of the following: [balazs.mosolygo@uib.no](mailto:balazs.mosolygo@uib.no) or [mbalazs215@gmail.com](mailto:mbalazs215@gmail.com).

# Installation

Python 3.10 was used during the creation of the project. Our virtual environment may be recreated using the following command:

```
pipenv install -r requirements.txt
```

The ``` config.yaml ``` file contains the following variables:

- mimic_path: This variable should point to your version of MIMIC-IV (We used version 2.2)
- output_path: Set to a preferably empty folder, where data files will be created.
- meta_data_path: This variable should point to the ``` meta_data ``` folder. It is currently set so the notebooks should be able to find it.
- final_dataset_path: This should point to the final dataset file. It is currently set to point to the included version of our dataset.
- importance_path: Set to where you would like our R script to create importance dumps. It is recommended, but necessary to be a separate folder from output_path.

Please set these variables according to your preferences before executing the notebooks/R script!

# File description

In this section, we describe the purpose of each file, their output and how to execute them to reproduce our results.

## Dataset Creation Notebooks

These notebooks require the python environment to be set up correctly and MIMIC-IV to be available.

### DataExtraction.ipynb

This notebook creates a base dataset that contains the booleans representing each treatment administered to every patient. If each cell is executed in order, a file called ``` hour_six.csv ``` will be created at ``` output_path ``` specific in ``` config.yaml ```. NOTE: The last cell took over 48 hours to execute on our machine.

### DataProcessor.ipynb

This notebook adds additional outcome and covariate data present in our provided dataset file. It should create a file named ``` additional_outcome_data_fixed.csv ```, which is equivalent to the provided copy, except for the ``` group_label ``` column.

### Causal_final.R

This R script contains the code used to create our final causal forest predictions. The current version requires ``` final_dataset_path ``` to be set to the path to either the currently provided dataset snapshot (as in the repo) or to the dataset generated by the python notebooks in the ``` config.yaml ``` file.

Each outcome requires an execution of the entire file in the following way:
1. The ``` c_target ``` variable must be set to the outcome variable in question.
2. All instances of the old ``` c_target ``` value must be replaced with the new value (We used replace_all for this purpose).
3. The old value of ``` c_target ``` must be added to the list of excluded variables found on line 483.

The file will produce a set of outcome files at the ``` importance_path ```value of the ``` config.yaml ``` file.

The outcomes we reported will be found in files named  treatmentAbbriviation```_estimate_res.csv ```, where treatmentAbbriviation will be the abbriviation of the exclusive treatment received by a given group. For example: ``` a_estimate_res.csv ``` will contain estimates for patients who received antibiotics.